[Music] Hello, it's me again, your favorite Bleepy Bloops merchant. Today we will be making an audio effect rack that is capable of liquefying literally anything from knocking Jersey kicks junk metal clangs to delicious kitchen sink sound design mud pies. All liqufied into premium hydration formula. You're goddamn right I'm making another water sound design video. As much as I love the Sophie Bubbles instrument rack, it was just not wet enough. So this time we are going to deploy our trusty Ableton focoder plus

Max for life out combo. And I promise it's three times sweatier, splashier, and soggier. For this tutorial, you can use any sound sample as long as it's loud and covers a wide range of frequencies. The one I'll be using is a sound design Frankenstein I glued together with a bunch of mud pies I made in the past, which should give you ample variety of texture and amplitude contour. As usual, link to this audio file alongside handful of samples I made using this audio effect rack is down in

the description. Babes, go have fun with them. On an audio track, bring in the attached sound design and an audio effect rack. Create a new effect chain and rename both of them as splish splash splash. This layer will ultimately encase the faucod conglomerate, the dry signal chain as well as mixing effects. This layer will also be the main interface for our macros. But more on that in a second. As a good habit, always insert a limiter at the very end of our rack. Now, in front of the limiter, bring in another audio effect

rack and name it as a fix and dry. under it. Create two new chains and label them as ethics and dry, of course. Next, immediately map their chain volume onto macro one and two, respectively, and label them accordingly. Last but not least, switch to macro mapping tab and bring down the maximum chain volume to zero dB. If I ever see anyone's volume knob above zero dB, I will personally revoke your Ableton license. Now, let's ride on FX chain. Bring in a foroder and labeled it as coder one.

Then initialize it to the following setting. Finally, turn down dry wet to around 65%. As our signal will be going through stages of transformation, we ought not overprocess things this early on. Now map for coder 1's attack and release time onto macro 3 and four respectively. Then under the macro mapping tab, adjust the maximum attack time to 15 milliseconds and max release time to 400 milliseconds. Nearly half of a second of release time can indeed cascade into chaos really quickly. However, we will further sculpt

and tighten up our sound down the road. So rest assured. So why for coder was the idea behind all of this? As shown in my previous Sophie bubbles video, when we have a bunch of relatively pure tones of varying amplitude contour playback in clusters across the frequency spectrum, we are able to create something that resembles what we call water in a corporeal world. This is also why the more intense the water gets, the more it resembles white or pink noise as more and more sign tones fill up the frequency spectrum in

a seemingly random fashion. Now what Ableton forcoder does is that it splits up our modulator signal into a user specified number of bands and measures each of the amplitude change over time. Utilizing this piece of information like a cookie cutter, it stems onto whatever carrier signal we have chosen which in our case is a noise generator. This sounds all nice and dandy except the fact that complex spectral processing usually requires huge number of bands which can be an insurmountable task for ableton for coders 40 bands to

mimic. However, by stacking multiple coders in serial and in parallel strategically optimizing each and every available parameter, it's actually a super powerful device that has long been underestimated. Now back to vocoder one. Map the unvoice level knob onto macro 5 and label it as tone. Then navigate to macro mapping tab once again and set the maximum unvoiced level to minus 6 dB. This macro will act as a dampener if we ever find the modulator signal too harsh and vice versa. adds a little bit of

edge to sounds that are a little dull to our liking. We are almost there with FOD one. However, the lack of movement is absolutely boring me out. So, it's right about time we bring in some LFO. Drag in three LFOs and name them in chronological order. Next, adjust the waveform rate and smooth to the following setting. I am still more comfortable working with remote mode, but I highly encourage you all to experiment on modulation mode if you so wish to. This time around, I'm for real going to

do only one modulation destination per LFO. So now's the time to write up a will for your CPU. Map LFO1 onto for coder 1's envelope depth and set its minimum and maximum modulation value to 40% and 75% respectively. Then map LFO2 onto filter bandwidth and adjust the minimum modulation value to 32%. The bandwidth parameter essentially controls the sharpness of each band pass filter's resonance. Low bandwidth value forces all the band pass filters to focus on a narrow range of frequencies

which in turn creates an effect akin to resonators or comb filters. This is for sure an incredibly interesting effect but it is also certainly not what we are looking for today. Lastly map LFO3 onto formant and increase its minimum modulation value to 50%. as low format value introduces digital artifacts that may potentially ruin the realism. Now, let's listen to what we have right now. These will all come together, I promise. In the next section, we will be adding an echo delay in parallel, then

randomizes delay time with a new pair of LFOs. Once the delay signal goes through for coder 2 and three, later on, it will mutate into tiny decorative water droplets and ripples. behind LFO3. Drag in a new audio effect rack and call it parallel delay. Then create two new chains and label them as through and size respectively. Obviously, we will be leaving the through chain alone. So go on size chain bring in an echo and two new LFOs. Name the LFOs chronologically and initialize all three devices to the

following setting. Next, map LFO4 onto mid channel delay time and LFO 5 onto side channel delay time. Then adjust both of the minimum and maximum modulation values to 30% and 75% respectively. Now map echo's feedback amount, reverb amount and size chain volume onto parallel delay racks macro one. This means when we increase the volume of size chain, we are also increasingly smearing and blurring those delayed signals, transforming the tiny ripples into intense splashes. Label macro one as size as well. Then go

to macro mappings tab and adjust the minimum and maximum feedback amount to 25% and 75% respectively. In addition, lower the max chain volume to zero dB before my OCD kicks in. Now, finally, map size onto FX and D macro 6. [Music] Now we are going to process our signal with two new foroders in parallel and most of their parameters will be either randomized by more LFOs or controlled remotely with macros. Behind parallel delay rack, bring in one final effect rack and name it as for coded two and three.

Create two new chains. Bring in a foder onto each chain and name them as for coded two and three respectively. Both for coders will be set up almost identically except for coder 3 will play a more supportive yet crucial role in expanding the stereo field. Initialize for coder 2 to the following setting. Moving on to coder 3. Set it up the same way as for coder 2. However, this time around, switch to LR mode instead. This means both modulator and carrier signals are processed in stereo, giving the resulting sound much wider stereo

field. In addition, reshape the filter bank by rolling off some of the muddy low end and harsh high frequencies. I find them a bit unpleasant in LR mode, but it's totally up to taste. I don't know, draw a cute snake or whatever. Be creative with it. It wouldn't be a full well rack without an excessive amount of LFOs. Behind for coded two and three rack, insert seven new LFOs. Label them appropriately and initialize them to the following setting. If anyone is having CPU issues, feel free to reuse or recycle existing LFOs.

[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] Now map LFO6 onto Foder 3's envelope attack time and set the max modulation value to 35%. %. It's a tiny amount, but it goes a long way. Then map LFO 7 and LFO 8 onto FOD 2 and for coder 3's envelope depth, respectively, and set both of their minimum modulation values to 60%. This randomizes how much of the modulators amplitude envelope is applied onto our noise oscillators. Next, map LFO 9 and LFO 10 onto FOD 2 and FOD 3's formant respectively. This simply adds variety to the

harmonics of our water. Then adjust LFO 9's minimum and maximum modulation values to 50% and 85% respectively. Then adjust LFO 10's minimum modulation value to 50%. Last but not least, map LFO 11 and LFO 12 onto FOD 2 and 3's bandwidth respectively and adjust both LFO's minimum modulation value to 32%. [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Music] Now to really harness the power of these two foders, let us create some macros on focoder 2 and three rack Map for coder 2's envelope attack time onto macro one.

Then map both for coders envelope release time onto macro 2. Next the crown jewel of this rack. Map both for coders gate onto macro 3. Once everything else are dialed in, this will act as a floodgate that controls the intensity of our water. Now map both for coders lower filter band slider onto macro 4. This gives us an option to roll off some boommy and muddy low frequencies. Similarly, map both for coders upper filter band slider onto macro 5 and labeled it as tone. In a minute, we will combine this with the other tone macro

we created earlier to more comprehensively control the brightness of our water. Lastly, map for coder 3's chain volume onto macro 6 and labeled it as size. We will also combine this with the other size macro to control the amount of supplementary water droplets and splashes we are adding to our sound. To finalize, navigate to the macro mapping tab and adjust FAR minimum and maximum control values to the following. Now simply migrate. and combine all these macros with the ones we created earlier on FX and dry rag.

We are officially done. But just like my plastic effect rack, we got to properly glue our dry and wet signal chains together. Between FX and dry rack and limiter, insert OTT, EQ8, hybrid reverb, and saturator. Turn down OTT's dry wet to around 30%. Then adjust the EQ however you see fit. Generally, I would like to scrape off some lows and harsh high frequencies, but you can be very creative with it. Next, initialize hybrid reverb by turning down the pre- delay to 2 milliseconds. Then, under the routing

drop-own menu, select convolution mode. Now go to the convolution impulse response section. Under early reflection, select synagogue wide l. Then turn up size to 150%. This impulse response in my opinion works best with watery sounds, especially when you crank up the dry wet. It really gives you the liinal swimming pool/ bougie bathroom type vibes. Now to finally put everything together, return to our splish splash splash rack. Relocate every macro we previously created on here. Then map hybrid reverbs

dry wet onto macro 9 and saturators drive onto macro 10. And voila, moist merchant 3000. [Music] [Music] I hope you enjoy this tutorial. I know this is not a new idea and I do apologize if I got carried away or it got long-winded at times, but I do hope you're able to take a couple things home from this video. In the next episode, I'll be showing you how to generate metallic clanks like these. I love you and I promise I will see you very very soon.

